# 2024-10-30: Wednesday, week 8

## 1. Plan

Plan for today is to continue catch-up work and introduce some new collaboration tools and methods. We will split into three teams and each team will work on one of the three most recent projects. We will complete the work in phases and share with the group at the end of each phase. Here are the teams and the projects:

## 2. Teams

### Team 1: Logistic Regression Project Tutorial

- Trevor Kortum
- Aaron Matthews
- Chris Lucas
- Cheick Diallo

### Team 2: Regularized Linear Regression Project Tutorial

- Kelsey Low
- Jasmine LaRose (late add)
- Gabriel Burton
- Les Desrameaux

### Team 3: Linear Regression Project Tutorial

- Maria Rodrigues
- Akash Alamuthu
- Aaron Jordan

## 3. Instructions

If you look at each of the three projects, they all have similar steps:

1. Load the data/EDA
2. Build a model
3. Optimize improve the model

Each team will work together in a breakout room on phase 1 of their project. After 30 minutes, we will reconvene in the lobby and each group will share their solution (quick, less than 5 minute overview of rationale and steps). Then the same for phase 2 and phase 3.

Focus on creating the most basic possible solution that works. In the engineering world this is called a MVP or minium viable product. It's meant to be a starting point to iterate from. You don't want to get bogged down and spend forever on EDA only to realize later during optimization that you should have done it differently. The goal it get it working end-to-end quickly and then go back and improve. Make mistakes early and often.

At the end of the night you all will have a solution to your group's project and a solid understanding of/start on the other two.

## 4. Collaboration

The first person listed in each group will be the 'server' - meaning they will fork the project repository, start a codespace and [live share it](https://github.com/4GeeksAcademy/gperdrizet-ds7-materials/blob/main/how_to/vscode_live_share.md) to the other members. This way everyone can work together on the same solution. At the end of class you can each then fork the server's repository from each team to finish and submit your own solutions to all three project.

## 5. The competition

To encourage you to improve upon the basic solution assembled in class, I will ask everyone to star the best individual solution for each project on GitHub during the next class. Exactly what 'best' means will depend on the project, but generally, think best accuracy, lowest error, etc. But, it could also be most clever, most efficient or interesting or something else.

## 6. Worked on

1. Catch-up for regression projects

## 7. Team EDA Repos

1. [Linear regression](https://github.com/4GeeksAcademy/Team-Crunchy-Tacos_Linear_Regression_Project)
2. [Logistic regression](https://ancient-incantation-447j5w99jqxf456.github.dev/) - broken! Appears to be link for codespace, not repository.
3. [Regularized linear regression](https://github.com/4GeeksAcademy/teamwork-ds7)

## 8. Common questions

### 1. How much EDA do I need to do?

Not that much. The minimum is just what is required to get the data formatted for input into the model. It's easy to get lost making plots and engineering features for ever. My approach is to get to model evaluation fast, then go back and improve the data. **Most** of data science is feature engineering. I'd say the bare minimum is as follows:

1. Load and split the data. Don't look at the testing data.
2. Look for and decide how to remove missing data (feeding a model with np.nan can cause errors).
3. Look for bad features: constant columns, meaningless columns, columns with low entropy, etc and get rid of them.
4. Look at the features and note the data type (float, int, object, etc.) and think about what each means (if possible).
5. Decide what, if anything we need to do to each feature before model training, e.g. encode string/categorical variables. Think minimal here - mostly the data type and shape just needs to be correct for the model so it doesn't error.

Try it, train the model. Evaluate the result, go back and improve the data and the model.

### 2. How can I move file in or out of a codespace?

Linux *curl* and *wget* are both avalible in our dev environment - these can be used to pull arbitrary files from URLs. I'll have to play with it a little more to figure out the best way to 'upload' file into a codespace. This is a good candidate for a problem-solving google search.

### 3. Other thoughts

Disappointed in the 'Live Share' vscode extension. Lots of issues, some times it works great - but it's not reliable. Students spent too much time troubleshooting it. Still looking for a good, low-energy collaboration workflow.

### 4. TODO

Make an example of an absurdly minimal ML project. I bet I can load, clean, fit and predict using scikit-learn in ~10 lines, not including imports. Start simple and then build complexity to the point where it's useful.
