# 2024-10-28: Monday, week 8

## 1. Worked on

1. Introduction & new instructor hand-off
2. Assignment catch-up

## 2. Common questions

### 1. What's *app.py* for?

App.py is a python script file called a module. It is there for you to refactor your working code from your jupiter notebook. Data scientists work in notebooks a lot because they combine code, plots and writing well. However, notebooks are not a good way to deploy working, finalized code. Think of the following example: you just finished a project that scrapes a website or gets data from an API, does some analysis and then generates a report. If you leave your code in a notebook, everyone who needs to see that report has to load the notebook and run the whole thing every time they want to look at. Then, when someone needs it, the report is already there and up-to-date. You could get clever and have the report automatically emailed to everyone who needs it on update. Or could even get your friend the front-end developer involved to build an application that reads your code's output and displays it on a website or via a mobile app. You can't do that with a notebook. See how a module is better?

### 2. Saving plots

The matplotlib pyplot object (often imported as plt) has a 'savefig' method that lets you save a plot to disk as a JPEG or similar:

```text
plt.savefig('./directory_name/file_name.jpg')
```

The above will save the last plot in directory *directory_name* as *file_name.jpg*. Make sure you create the directory before you try to save in it.

### 3. Restart/run-all

If you are having trouble in a notebook and have been messing around with it for a while - try clicking *restart* followed by *run all*.

This will clear the namespace and re-run everything. Often in notebooks the internal state can get very cluttered without you realizing it. This is because object created in earlier cells stick around. It's easy to tripped up when you are working in one cell and the value of a variable is not what you think it is because something was done to it by an earlier cell. It's also very easy to accidentally run things out of order etc.

The same principal applies to the codespace itself. I you are having trouble setting environment variables or doing things like interacting with an SQL server (i.e. having problems that are not python errors, but are instead coming from misconfiguration of the environment). Save and commit your work, then exit and delete the codespace and start a fresh one. This is a huge advantage of codespaces, you don't really have to worry about breaking your development environment, you can easily make a new one.
