# 2024-11-15: Friday, week 10

## 1. Plan

Tonight we will discuss unsupervised learning in general and then use the k-mean clustering algorithm to analyze housing data. K-means is based on the concepts of feature space and distance that we introduced last time - a quick review might be useful!

## 2. Unsupervised learning

Unsupervised learning is a branch of machine learning that comprises problems where there are no labels - i.e. we are not trying to predict the value of a specific output variable. Most unsupervised machine learning techniques can be separated into two classes.

1. **Clustering**: Grouping data together without specifying ahead of time exactly what the groups are or what data belongs to which group.
2. **Dimensionality reduction**: reducing the number of features in a dataset.

## 3. Tonight's project

In tonight's project we will first use K-means (an unsupervised machine learning technique) to cluster data. Then, we will train a classifier to predict the cluster that new data should belong to (a supervised machine learning technique). The work-flow is a little different that the other project so far because there are two different model training steps.

Take a look at the [MVP notebook](https://github.com/4GeeksAcademy/gperdrizet-k-means-project/blob/main/src/mvp.ipynb) for my suggestions for how to set it up. Here is a shorter outline as well:

1. Load the data
2. EDA/feature engineering
3. Unsupervised model training
4. More EDA/feature engineering on the new data from the unsupervised model
5. Supervised model training
6. Model evaluation

## 4. Note about issues with older SQL based projects

We have uncovered some issues with older projects that use SQLAlchemy/PostgreSQL. These issues have manifested in two ways:

1. Codespaces spun up from older repos (g.e. *Connecting to a SQL Database Project Tutorial*) don't work properly. If you run *psql --version* in the codespace terminal and receive an error, this applies to you.
2. Codespaces spun up on [machine-learning-python-template](https://github.com/4GeeksAcademy/machine-learning-python-template) seem to have a working PostgreSQL installation, but Python calls recommended in 4Geeks provided tutorial/reading/solution documentation causes errors. This seems to be due to an update of SQLAlchemy.

This is a good time to introduce semantic versioning. The numbers after a software release have a specific meaning (assuming the authors use semantic versioning - which most folks in the python-verse do). You might see a release versioned like this: Python 3.10.15. Each of the three numbers refer to how 'big' an update is:

- 3: Major version
- 10: Minor version
- 15: Patch

When the first number changes, things might break - it means that the API has changed, function calls have been updated and you should not expect code that was written for the previous version to function with the new version. When the second number changes, new functionality has been added, but all of the old stuff should still work. When the third number changes, something has been fixed, but no working functionality should be different. For example, code that was written against Python 2 should not be expected to run with a Python 3 interpreter. But, you probably won't notice the difference between Python 3.8.10 and Python 3.8.15.

Why does this matter? SQLAlchemy recently went from version 1.4 to 2.0 on the 15th of October. It means that there have been major changes to the API and older code may not work anymore. See the extensive article in the documentation here: [SQLAlchemy 2.0 - Major Migration Guide](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/changelog/migration_20.html).

What does it mean for you? If you are stuck on weird errors in an SQL project, work on something else. It's not your fault. I will get in touch with DevOps at 4Geeks and let them know this is causing us problems and work with them to get it fixed.
