# 2024-11-01: Friday, week 8

## 1. Plan

Today we will cover a new module on decision trees. After a quick ~20 minute introduction to the topic we will spend the bulk of the session working on the project. We will also be testing out a new collaboration method.

## 2. Collaboration experiment #2: GitHub

This time, we will approach collaboration like software developers often do - using git. During class, I will fork the 'MVP' for this module's project and ask everyone to create their own branch on the fork. Then, as folks come up with interesting/effective improvements they can submit pull requests which I will merge (or not) into the 'main' branch.

### 2.2. Instructions

I will create a fork of the MVP for us to work on at the start of class. (If you are not sure what I mean by the MVP - take a look at the [class repositories list](https://github.com/4GeeksAcademy/gperdrizet-ds7-materials/blob/draft/class_repositories.md)).

Here is what you need to do:

#### 1. Start up a codespace on the forked MVP repository link I provide in chat

#### 2. Create a branch for yourself

Name it using your GitHub username. In the codespace's terminal:

```text
git checkout -b your_user_name
```

Push your local branch in the codespace to the repository on GitHub:

```text
git push --set-upstream origin your_user_name
```

You should see the following output:

```text
Total 0 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0), pack-reused 0
remote: 
remote: Create a pull request for 'your_user_name' on GitHub by visiting:
remote:      https://github.com/4GeeksAcademy/gperdrizet-decision-tree-project/pull/new/gperdrizet
remote: 
To https://github.com/4GeeksAcademy/gperdrizet-decision-tree-project
 * [new branch]      your_user_name -> your_user_name
branch 'your_user_name' set up to track 'origin/your_user_name'.
```

#### 3. Work on the project

Make sure you are committing often! This will 'save' your changes to your branch on GitHub and make them visible (and merge-able). To commit changes to your branch, run the following commands:

```text
git add the_file_you_updated.ipynb
git commit -m "A short message about what you changed."
git push
```

#### 4. Create a pull request!

Once you have a good working improvement of some sort (a new plot, a new feature manipulation, a model optimization etc.) we will incorporate it into the fork's 'main' branch.

Go to the repository page for your branch and find at the top where it says, 'this branch is x commits ahead of ....' and click on it.

On the pull request page **MAKE SURE** you select our working fork for the base repository, that is where your changes will go. And, make sure you select your branch for head, this is were the changes are coming from.

Click the big green button that says 'Create pull request'.

Write a short (2-3 sentence) description about what changes your pull request contains. Then, on the right-hand side click 'assignees' and assign it to me (gperdrizet).

Click the big green button at the bottom that says 'Create pull request' and you are done!

#### 5. Stay up to date with main

When we decide to incorporate changes into main from someone's branch, I will let everyone know once the pull request has been merged. At that point you can bring those changes into your own repo by pulling the changes from GitHub and merging them into your branch.

```text
git checkout main
git pull origin main
git checkout your_user_name
git merge main
```

## 3. Worked on

1. Decision tree project

## 4. Common questions

### 1. How can I deal with the zeros in the data?

We discussed a few options. In general, there is no one 'correct' answer. How you handle missing data/zeros will depend on the dataset and feature (and your goal). Here are some options:

1. Nothing - in the case of *Pregnancies* zero is a reasonable number, so we should leave it alone, even if we suspect that some zeros in this column are missing data.
2. Get rid of the example (row). This can work in some situations, but for the diabetes data, it's not the best idea. Throwing out all the rows with have a zero in one of the feature columns cuts the dataset in half.
3. Get rid of the feature (column). Similar consideration as number #2.
4. Some combination of 2 & 3. Sure, why not - worth a try. Especially if you have one feature that contains most of the missing data and doesn't seem crucial to the model.
5. You could try to use imputation to fill in the missing data. See below for more information.

### 2. What is cross validation?

Cross-validation is a great method to estimate the performance of our model on unseen data without contaminating/over-using the test data. See below for more info.

## 5. Further reading

1. Decision tree classifiers:
    - Practical introduction to [decision trees](https://scikit-learn.org/1.5/modules/tree.html)
    - Scikit-learn [DecisionTreeClassifier()](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.tree.DecisionTreeClassifier.html) class documentation

2. Cross-validation: evaluating estimator performance
    - Practical introduction to [cross-validation](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/cross_validation.html)
    - Scikit-learn [cross_val_score()](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.model_selection.cross_val_score.html) function documentation
    - Scikit-learn [StratifiedKFold()](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.model_selection.StratifiedKFold.html#sklearn.model_selection.StratifiedKFold) class documentation

3. Missing data/imputation
    - Practical introduction to [imputation of missing values](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/impute.html)
    - Scikit-learn [SimpleImputer()](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.impute.SimpleImputer.html#sklearn.impute.SimpleImputer) class documentation
    - Scikit-learn [IterativeImputer()](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.impute.IterativeImputer.html#sklearn.impute.IterativeImputer) class documentation