# 2024-11-04: Monday, week 9

## 1. Plan

Today we will cover a new module on random forest models. After a quick ~20 minute review of decision trees and introduction to random forests we will spend the bulk of the session working on the project. We will also be iterating our GitHub collaboration workflow. The main difference will be that this time, you will be committing to and submitting pull requests from a fork, not a branch. Hopefully this will resolve the permissions issues we faced last Friday.

## 2. Collaboration experiment #2, revisit: GitHub

I have created a fork of today's project MVP to use as a starting point for a colaborative solution. (If you are not sure what I mean by the MVP - take a look at the [class repositories list](https://github.com/4GeeksAcademy/gperdrizet-ds7-materials/blob/draft/class_repositories.md)).

### 2.2. Instructions

Here is what you need to do:

#### 1. Make your own fork of the collaboration fork

Here is the link to the main collaboration fork: [random-forest-project-colaboration](https://github.com/4GeeksAcademy/colaboration-random-forest-project)

You need to fork it for yourself so that you can work on it and make commits. Do this following the standard method. Make sure to set the owner to 4Geeks.

#### 2. Start a codespace

Start up a codespace on your fork just like you normally would. Make sure to install the requierments file with *pip*.

#### 3. Work on the project

Make sure you are committing often! This will 'save' your changes to your fork on GitHub and make them visible (and merge-able). To commit changes to your fork, run the following commands:

```text
git add the_file_you_updated.ipynb
git commit -m "A short message about what you changed."
git push
```

#### 4. Create a pull request!

Once you have a good working improvement of some sort (a new plot, a new feature manipulation, a model optimization etc.) we will incorporate it back into the main 'collaboration' fork.

Go to the repository page for your branch and find at the top where it says, 'This branch is x commits ahead of ....' and click on it.

On the pull request page **MAKE SURE** you select our working fork (random-forest-project-collaboration) for the base repository, that is where your changes will go. And, make sure you select your branch for head, this is where the changes are coming from.

Click the big green button that says 'Create pull request'.

Write a short (2-3 sentence) description about what changes your pull request contains. Then, on the right-hand side click 'assignees' and assign it to me (gperdrizet).

Click the big green button at the bottom that says 'Create pull request' and you are done!

#### 5. Stay up to date with main

When we decide to incorporate changes into main collaboration for from someone's fork, I will let everyone know once the pull request has been merged. At that point you can bring those changes into your own fork by fetching them from upstream and merging them into your branch.

```text
git fetch upstream
git checkout main
git rebase upstream/main
```
